h1. Boston.rb

This is the source code to "Boston.rb":http://bostonrb.org, a Rails app which helps Boston Rubyists communicate.

It is open source under the MIT license. Fork away, modify to your own user group's needs, & send us pull requests!

h2. Dependencies

All gems are vendored except for Nokogiri, JSON, RedCloth, and Feedzirra, which have native extensions, & Cucumber, which doesn't respect vendoring.

Install:

    cucumber           0.3.5
    json               1.1.6
    pauldix-feedzirra  0.0.12
    RedCloth           4.1.0

h2. Tests

We use Cucumber & Webrat for acceptance testing and Shoulda, Factory Girl, & Mocha for unit testing. We use Fakeweb to stop the test suite from hitting external services. We use Nokogiri for parsing markup, especially in acceptance tests.

h2. Development & Test databases

Boston.rb comes without a database.yml. It is also ignored from git. This is so we can deploy with the correct credentials. As a developer, that means you need to create one of your own. Developers are successfully using MySQL & Postgres. SQLite should be fine, too.

h2. Production

"EngineYard":http://engineyard.com is awesome enough to provide us with hosting.

h3. Dependencies

The gems with native dependencies as mentioned above need to be installed on the production machine. Typically you do:

    sudo gem install whatever-gem --no-ri --no-rdoc

Since we use some gems that are only on github (ie feedzirra), this needs to be run at least once:

    gem sources -a http://gems.github.com

h3. Cron

The following rake tasks need to be configured to keep data fresh:

    rake RAILS_ENV=production get_tweets
    rake RAILS_ENV=production get_blogs

For our EY deployment, there's a custom wrapper to handle logging output at  /engineyard/custom/cron_wrapper, which among other things, adds logging to /data/bostonrb/current/logs. It takes four arguments: the application to run for (always will be bostonrb), the name of the log file, the rails environment, and lastly the command to run

The current crontab entries look like:

    */5 * * * * /engineyard/custom/cron_wrapper bostonrb get_tweets production 'rake get_tweets'
    */5 * * * * /engineyard/custom/cron_wrapper bostonrb get_blogs production 'rake get_blogs'

h3. Deployers

Josh Nichols and Dan Croak have access to the production slice.
This must be added to cron:

h2. Contributors

Dan Croak, Josh Nichols, Harold Gimenez, Dan Pickett, Rebecca Frankel, Joe Ferris.

Design by Angelo Simeoni.

